Family, friends and former bandmates have remembered Liam Payne at the One Direction star's funeral, just over a month after he died at the age of 31. The private service took place on Wednesday in Amersham in Buckinghamshire, north-west of London. Payne's former bandmates Harry Styles, Louis Tomlinson, Niall Horan and Zayn Malik were among the mourners, alongside Payne's girlfriend Kate Cassidy and his former partner Cheryl, with whom he shares a son. Payne's coffin arrived at the church on a white horse-drawn hearse carrying floral tributes spelling the words "son" and "daddy". After the service, four pallbearers carried the coffin from St Mary's Church, followed by his parents and Cheryl. Her Girls Aloud bandmates Kimberley Walsh and Nicola Roberts also attended the service, as did One Direction's former label boss Simon Cowell, who was seen comforting the family. Presenters James Corden, Marvin and Rochelle Humes, Scott Mills and Adrian Chiles were also among the mourners. Other floral tributes at the funeral included one in the shape of a set of 10-pin bowling pins and ball, a reference to one of Payne's favourite pastimes. A small crowd of locals and onlookers gathered outside the church, but fans largely stayed away, with members of the One Direction group on Reddit reminding others that "memorials are for fans, funerals are for family". Payne lived in the nearby village of Chalfont St Giles. Payne died on 16 October after falling from the third floor of a hotel room in the Argentine capital Buenos Aires. In a short statement following his death, his family said: "We are heartbroken. Liam will forever live in our hearts and we'll remember him for his kind, funny and brave soul." An autopsy confirmed the 31-year-old had suffered internal and external bleeding and multiple traumatic injuries. Payne was one of the most recognisable names in pop, after rising to fame on The X Factor. Despite only coming third on the show in 2010, One Direction went on to become the biggest British group since The Beatles. During their five-year career, they sold 70 million records, with four UK number one singles and four number one albums. A co-writer on many of their hits, Payne also achieved solo success with tracks like Strip That Down and Bedroom Floor. He is survived by his parents, two sisters and Bear, his son with Girls Aloud singer Cheryl. The musician best known for playing the guitar riff in the James Bond theme tune dies aged 87.   A musical produced by the pop band Steps is to go on a UK tour including dates in Manchester. The Script is due to headline the event, which has been held on the historic site since 1996. The international popstar surprises schoolchildren at the end of an industry careers event. The hip-hop mogul is accused of sex trafficking involving drug-fuelled orgies known as "freak-offs". Copyright 2024 BBC. All rights reserved.  The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.  